#summary Template for pages that describe a feature of the application.
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design,Template

= Description =
_This section should provide a general overview of the feature, including what the feature is and what it should do. Detailed implementation information should be explained under the "Implementation Details" section, not in this section. (Think: *What is the feature?*)_

= Benefit / Rationale =
_This section should demonstrate why the feature will work and/or what problems the feature will solve. Rationale can also include precedent (i.e. the feature will work because similar products already have the feature and it has proven useful). (Think: *Why is the feature useful?*)_

= Justifiable Need =
_This section should demonstrate a clear need from the user base for the feature described. This is more than just "because the feature is cool!". If possible, cite newsgroup postings, IRC logs, and observed problems in the current system. (Think: *Why is the feature needed?*)._

= Prior Art / Example Implementations =
_This section should indicate what other projects or products, if any, have implemented this feature and can act as an example of basically how the feature should function. (Think: *Who has implemented the feature before?*)


= Implementation Details =
== Technical Overview ==
_This section should outline the detailed technical aspects of the feature implementation. The implementation should ideally be as simple and reasonable as possible for the current project code base, unless suggesting major changes to the code base is clearly justified (i.e. it is all right to suggest major change when you feel major change is needed). (Think: *How can we feasibly implement the feature?*)_

== Affected Components ==
_This section should outline what components of the project will be affected by implementing this feature. (Think: *What would need to change or could break if we implement the feature?*)_

== Potential Tools / Resources ==
_This section should outline what tools, technologies, or existing open source projects might prove useful when implementing this feature. (Think: *What can we use to implement the feature?*)_

== Prospective Obstacles ==
_This section should outline any risks or obstacles that could make implementation of this feature difficult or impossible. This section should be continuously updated throughout implementation to include new obstacles as they are discovered. (Think: *What could delay implementation of the feature?*)_

== Current Progress ==
_This section should indicate how far along the implementation of this feature is, if any implementation has been done. (Think: *What has been done to implement the feature already?*)_